content/learn/serverless-integration-for-large-language-model-llm-using-aws-lambda/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Serverless Integration for Large Language Model (LLM) using AWS Lambda"
date: 2025-09-10
lastmod: 2025-09-13
draft: false

description: "Learn to summarize web pages using a Large Language Model and store results in Amazon DynamoDB with AWS Lambda."
summary: "This blog guides you through using a Large Language Model (LLM) to summarize web pages, storing the summaries in an Amazon DynamoDB table using AWS Lambda. It includes prerequisites, architecture details, and references to resources like Udemy courses and GitHub repositories."

tags: ["ai-integration", "aws-serverless", "llm", "web-summarization", "dynamo-db"]

showDate : false
showDateUpdated : true
showHeadingAnchors : false
showPagination : false
showReadingTime : false
showTableOfContents : true
showTaxonomies : false 
showWordCount : false
showSummary : true
sharingLinks : false
---

## About

In this blog, we'll use a Large Language Model (LLM) to summarize a web page and store the summary in an Amazon DynamoDB table. The web page's URL serves as both the input source and the key for storing the summary in the table.

[{{< icon "github" >}}](https://github.com/amoschen-ygtq/llm-with-lambda) **[source code](https://github.com/amoschen-ygtq/llm-with-lambda)**

## Prerequisite

1. A computer. If using Windows please check it's Windows 11 and recent versions of Windows 10 (version 1903 or higher, with build 18362 or higher).
1. An AWS account. You can [create a free account](https://aws.amazon.com/free) if don't have one yet.
1. Install [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) by clicking the **Download Docker Desktop**.
1. Install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download), and [DevContainer extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers).
1. Install [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads).
1. Clone [this repo]() and open it in Visual Studio Code.
    (Choose "Reopen in container" when being asked)
1. Install AWS CLI and CDK by running the `./script/install_tools.sh` in Visual Studio Code's Integrated Terminal.

## Architecture

![Architecture](/images/course_1_llm_with_lambda/architecture.png)

## References

- Udemy - [LLM Engineering: Master AI, Large Language Models & Agents](https://www.udemy.com/course/llm-engineering-master-ai-and-large-language-models) Created by **Ligency Team**, **Ed Donner**
- GitHub - [llm_engineering](https://github.com/ed-donner/llm_engineering) by **Ed Donner**
- AWS - [Track, allocate, and manage your generative AI cost and usage with Amazon Bedrock](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/track-allocate-and-manage-your-generative-ai-cost-and-usage-with-amazon-bedrock/) by **Kyle Blocksom** and **Dhawalkumar Patel** on 01 NOV 2024

## Step by step implementation

Commit message:

use tags to sync source code with content

content/learn/serverless-integration-for-large-language-model-llm-using-aws-lambda/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Serverless Integration for Large Language Model (LLM) using AWS Lambda"
date: 2025-09-10
lastmod: 2025-09-13
draft: false

description: "Learn to summarize web pages using a Large Language Model and store results in Amazon DynamoDB with AWS Lambda."
summary: "This blog guides you through using a Large Language Model (LLM) to summarize web pages, storing the summaries in an Amazon DynamoDB table using AWS Lambda. It includes prerequisites, architecture details, and references to resources like Udemy courses and GitHub repositories."

tags: ["ai-integration", "aws-serverless", "llm", "web-summarization", "dynamo-db"]

showDate : false
showDateUpdated : true
showHeadingAnchors : false
showPagination : false
showReadingTime : false
showTableOfContents : true
showTaxonomies : false 
showWordCount : false
showSummary : true
sharingLinks : false
---

## About

In this blog, we'll use a Large Language Model (LLM) to summarize a web page and store the summary in an Amazon DynamoDB table. The web page's URL serves as both the input source and the key for storing the summary in the table.

[{{< icon "github" >}}](https://github.com/amoschen-ygtq/llm-with-lambda) **[source code](https://github.com/amoschen-ygtq/llm-with-lambda)**

> The above is the latest code. Please use source code link provided in each implementation step for consistency with the blog content.)

## Prerequisite

1. A computer. If using Windows please check it's Windows 11 and recent versions of Windows 10 (version 1903 or higher, with build 18362 or higher).
1. An AWS account. You can [create a free account](https://aws.amazon.com/free) if don't have one yet.
1. Install [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) by clicking the **Download Docker Desktop**.
1. Install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download), and [DevContainer extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers).
1. Install [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads).
1. Clone [this repo]() and open it in Visual Studio Code.
    (Choose "Reopen in container" when being asked)
1. Install AWS CLI and CDK by running the `./script/install_tools.sh` in Visual Studio Code's Integrated Terminal.

## Architecture

![Architecture](/images/course_1_llm_with_lambda/architecture.png)

## References

- Udemy - [LLM Engineering: Master AI, Large Language Models & Agents](https://www.udemy.com/course/llm-engineering-master-ai-and-large-language-models) Created by **Ligency Team**, **Ed Donner**
- GitHub - [llm_engineering](https://github.com/ed-donner/llm_engineering) by **Ed Donner**
- AWS - [Track, allocate, and manage your generative AI cost and usage with Amazon Bedrock](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/track-allocate-and-manage-your-generative-ai-cost-and-usage-with-amazon-bedrock/) by **Kyle Blocksom** and **Dhawalkumar Patel** on 01 NOV 2024

## Step by step implementation
